# `kt-gracie`

Welcome to your new `kt-gracie` project and to the Internet Computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with `kt-gracie`, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd kt-gracie/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```
## Pre-requisites

- dfx 0.31.0
- node >= v22.14.0
- Linux (any Distro), WSL or MacOS

## Installing Node, IC SDK, DFX, and MOPS

### Node

Ensure you have Node installed in WSL or your macOS. 

If not, you can install it through nvm (node version manager) for both Linux and macOS, run the following:

```bash
# installs nvm (Node Version Manager)
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.40.0/install.sh | bash

# download and install Node.js (you may need to restart the terminal)
nvm install 20

# verifies the right Node.js version is in the environment
node -v

# verifies the right npm version is in the environment
npm -v
```

### dfx

To install dfx (v 0.31.0), run the following:

```bash
DFX_VERSION=0.31.0 sh -ci "$(curl -fsSL https://internetcomputer.org/install.sh)"
```

To verify that the IC SDK is successfully installed, run the following command:

```bash
dfx --version
```

It's recommended to create an identity using dfx. To set an identity and a key run the following command:

```bash
dfx identity new
```

Then use your identity:

```bash
dfx identity use <insert_name>
```

To verify the list of identities available:
```bash
dfx identity list
```

Learn more about dfx identities here - [dfx identity](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/references/cli-reference/dfx-identity)

### Mops

Mops is a package manager that needs to be installed on the system rather than on the working directory. In the root run this command:

Through curl

```bash
#In the root of your system ~/

curl -fsSL cli.mops.one/install.sh | sh
```
In your project's dfx.json, add mops as a packtool

```json
"defaults": {
  "build": {
    "packtool": "mops sources"
  }
},
```

In your project's root directory, run the following command:

```bash
mops install
```
After running this, any toolchains or dependencies will be installed.

**Note that the installation of mops will take some time. Approximately five minutes, or more depending on your system and network connection.**

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface. It basically deploys the fullstack application

dfx deploy
```

Once the job completes, your application will be available at `http://localhost:4943?canisterId={asset_canister_id}`.

If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

If you only want to run the backend only, use:

```bash
dfx deploy kt-gracie-backend
```

Which will start a server at `http://localhost:8080`, proxying API requests to the replica at port 4943.

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
